Experian Innovation Lab is a research and development unit at Experian formed with the desire to work in collaboration with Experian's teams to enhance relationships with clients and acquire strategic datasets. Using our comprehensive understanding of individuals, markets and economies, we help organizations develop customer relationships to make their businesses more profitable. As a Data Scientist at the Experian Innovation Lab, you will help develop analytical solutions, contributing to product prototypes, and helping evaluate data assets. You will bring experience in predictive modeling, machine learning, and deep learning to this position. You will report into the VP of Data Science Craft advanced machine learning analytical solutions to extract insights from diverse structured and unstructured data sources. Unearth data value by selecting and applying the right machine learning, deep learning and processing techniques. Refine data manipulation and retrieval through the design of efficient data structures and storage solutions. Innovate with tools designed for data processing and information retrieval. Dissect and document vast datasets, analyzing them to highlight patterns and insights. Solve complex challenges by developing impactful algorithms. Ensure model excellence by validating performance scores and analyzing Return on investment and benefits. Articulate model processes and outcomes, documenting and presenting findings and performance metrics. Advanced degree in Machine Learning, Data Science, AI, Computer Science, or a related quantitative field. 1 or more years of experience in AI, data science, or predictive modeling Proficiency in at least one programming language, with coding skills in Python Experience with deep learning (CNN, RNN, LSTM, attention models), machine learning methodologies (SVM, GLM, boosting, random forest), graph models, or, reinforcement learning. Experience with opensource tools for deep learning and machine learning technology such as pytorch, Keras, tensorflow, scikitlearn, pandas. Experience with large data analysis using Spark (pySpark preferred) Experience with LLMs and the relevant tools in the Generative AI domain. Experience developing advanced language models Experience applying Generative AIbased tools Experience with Hadoop and NoSQL related technologies such as Map Reduce, Hive, HBase, mongoDB, Cassandra. Experience modifying and applying advanced algorithms to address practical problems